Proposed EST workflow for automated TLS certificate provisioning (#47)
AMWA-TV/nmos-api-security: best-practice-certificate-provisioning.md

### EST Client

The entity that is using the EST API, for example:

- a Node requesting a TLS Server Certificate
- a Node requesting the latest Root CA of the domain

### NMOS Server

The entity that is providing an NMOS API, for example:

- a registry implementing IS-04 Registration and Query APIs
- a Node implementing IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API

### NMOS Client

The entity that is using the NMOS API, for example:

- a Node using the IS-04 Registration API
- a monitoring application using the IS-04 Query API
- a connection control application using the IS-05 Connection API

## Introduction (informative)

This document covers the automated provisioning of TLS Certificates to NMOS Servers, which are then used to secure communications between NMOS Servers and NMOS Clients.

This document is not concerned with the security of the connection used to carry out provisioning of the TLS Certificate, but for the mechanism described in this document to be effective the connection must be secured, ideally using the recommendation covered in [BCP-003-01](best-practice-secure-comms.md).

## Automated Certificate Provisioning Flow (informative)

> To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, manufacturers must include a unique TLS Client Certificate on all their devices and the provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, manufacturers must include a unique TLS Client Certificate on all their devices and provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.
```

Minor typo fix above. Otherwise it's perhaps unclear how the revocation would be recorded and how it would be dealt with? I wouldn't necessarily expect the manufacturer to maintain a public CRL / OCSP server.

Author: Yeah not sure exactly how this should work, might be handled in a similar way to product recall or security flaws in products, where the manufacturer contacts customers.

1. Before the NMOS Node(EST Client) is shipped from the factory it must be provisioned with a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the Manufacturers Certificate Authority
2. When the EST Client is connected to the target environments network, it will first discover the location of the EST Server using Unicast DNS-SD.

>     * The EST Client should assume the EST server found using DNS-SD is trusted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The EST Client should assume the EST server found using DNS-SD is trusted and need not perform certificate verification for this initial transaction.
```

3. The EST Client should then request the Root CA for the target network, from the EST Server
    * Using the Root CA returned to secure further communications with the EST Server and NMOS Servers

> 4. The EST Client must generate a Certificate Signing Request(CSR) for all supported TLS Cipher Suites with appropriate key lengths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The EST Client must generate a Certificate Signing Request(CSR) for all supported digital signature algorithms with appropriate key lengths
```

    * Included in the CSR must be the DNS resolvable name for the current domain of the EST Client
    * Appropriate values for the remaining CSR fields should be used
5. The EST Client should send each CSR to the EST Server
    * The EST Client must provide the Manufacturer issued certificate during the TLS handshake, if valid
    * The EST Server will use the TLS Client Certificate to validate whether the EST Client is authorized to be issued with a TLS Server Certificate. If the EST CLient is validated the EST Server will return a signed TLS Certificate
6. The EST Client should provide the returned TLS Certificate and the corresponding chain of trust for all future request to its NMOS APIs

The workflow if no valid Manufacturer TLS Client Certificate is present or if EST Client is moved to a new network are covered in detail in the following [sections](#est-client).

## DNS-SD Advertisement

The EST Server MUST be advertised using unicast DNS-SD as per [RFC 6763][RFC-6763].
The EST Server SHOULD NOT be advertised via mDNS-based DNS-SD.

> EST Clients MUST not trust a mDNS-based DNS-SD advertisement for the EST server.

Reviewer: Is there a specific reason for not trusting the mDNS one, other than that it's easier to spoof? Perhaps it should not 'automatically trust' these, or like other specs if a unicast record is available mDNS ones should be ignored?

Author: Yes I thought it best not to use mDNS announcements as they can be easily spoofed and there is to be no TLS Authentication to be performed  when the EST Client first communicates with the EST server. 
You wouldn't for example want a device to be successfully enrolled in a network, discover a higher priority EST Server when renewing the certificate, and get the Root CA and TLS Certificate of a rogue CA and stop working. The query/Registration APIs being the biggest risk here, as they would no longer be trusted by Nodes.
This could be a configurable option on the EST Client?

The EST Server MUST be advertised with the following service type:

```
_nmos-certs._tcp
```

> The hostname and port of the EST Server MUST be identified via the DNS-SD advertisement, with the full HTTPS path then being resolved via the use of the path-prefix of `/.well-known/` as defined in [RFC5785][RFC-5785] and the registered name of `est`. Thus, a valid EST server URI path begins with `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/`. A DNS A record MUST be provided to allow the hostname to be resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hostname and port of the EST Server MUST be identified via the DNS-SD advertisement, with the full HTTPS path then being resolved via the use of the path-prefix of `/.well-known/` as defined in [RFC5785][RFC-5785] and the registered name of `est`. Thus, a valid example EST server URI path begins with `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/`. A DNS A record MUST be provided to allow the hostname to be resolved.
```

Multiple DNS-SD advertisements for the same API are permitted where the API is exposed via multiple ports and/or protocols.

EST Clients MUST support discovering the EST Server through use of unicast DNS-SD service discovery, as described in [RFC 6763][RFC-6763].

### DNS-SD TXT Records

#### pri

The DNS-SD advertisement MUST include a TXT record with key 'pri' and an integer value. Servers MAY additionally present a matching priority via the DNS-SD SRV record 'priority' and 'weight' as defined in [RFC 2782][RFC-2782]. The TXT record should be used in favour of the SRV priority and weight where these values differ, in order to overcome issues in the Bonjour and Avahi implementations. Values 0 to 99 correspond to an active EST Server API (zero being the highest priority). Values 100+ are reserved for development work to avoid colliding with a live system.

#### api_label

> The DNS-SD advertisement MAY include a TXT record with key 'api_label' and a string. The 'api_label' key defines an arbitrary label that if present MUST be appended to the well-know EST path, for example `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/<arbitrary label>/`. The arbitrary label allows multiple EST Server instance on a single host to be used.

Reviewer: Could you note explicitly that this is to cover a provision in the RFC?

This MUST include the following API endpoints:

| Operation                       | Operation path  |
| ------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Distribution of CA Certificates | /cacerts        |
| Enrollment of Clients           | /simpleenroll   |
| Re-enrollment of Clients        | /simplereenroll |

### EST Server Authentication

The EST Server MUST present a valid TLS Server Certificate signed by the CA for realm from which it is issuing certificates.

### EST Server - Client Authentication

The EST Server MUST authenticate the EST Client that is requesting a TLS Certificate manually or automatically using a TLS Client Certificate.

The EST Server MUST support using a TLS Client Certificate, presented during the TLS handshake by the EST Client to authenticate if the Client is trusted. The TLS Client Certificate can either be signed by the current CA or an externally trusted Root CA. The EST Server MUST check the validity of the EST CLients TLS Certificate before responding to its request. The EST Server MUST provide a method to load multiple trusted Root CA's, that are used to verify TLS Client Certificate.

> The EST Server MAY also support manually authentication of the EST Client if; no TLS Client Certificate is presented during the TLS handshake, the TLS Client Certificate is not trusted or as an extra authentication step. The exact process for manual authentication will be implementation specific, but the EST Server MUST provide enough information to the operator so they can authenticate the EST Client. During the manual authentication the EST Server MUST respond with either HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 and the response must include a `Retry-After` header.

Reviewer: Is the response defined in the RFC? If so a link to the section would be helpful.

Author: Added

The EST Server MUST be capable of issuing TLS Certificates signed with both RSA and ECDSA keys.

> The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client AUthentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used to authenticated the NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client during certificate renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client AUthentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used both as a server certificate to authenticate NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client to the EST Server during certificate renewal.
```

## EST Client

An EST Client SHOULD allow EST to be disabled, preventing the EST Client from being automatically provisioned with a TLS Certificate if required by the networks security policy.

An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Servers Hostname and Port, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server.

> An EST Client MUST provide a method to manually install both the Root CA and TLS Server certificate for the target environment, for the case when an EST Server is not present or the TLS Client Certificate is no longer valid.

Reviewer: Presumably there must also be a way to replace the installed TLS client cert in case it is revoked or expires?

Reviewer: We should also provide guidance here on the expected lifetime of the manufacturer installed cert and its associated CA.

If the EST Server returns a HTTP re-direct, the the EST Client SHOULD follow the re-direct URL.

If the EST Server returns an HTTP 4xx, HTTP 5xx or Connection Timeout, the EST Client SHOULD attempt the request again using an alternative EST Server if present, else the EST Client SHOULD wait an appropriate exponential backoff period before retrying.

### Initial Certificate Provisioning

**EST Server Discovery**

On connection to the target environments network the EST Client SHOULD attempt to discover the location of the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), if EST has not been disabled or the location of the EST configured manually.

> **Get Root CA**

Reviewer: We should probably include explicit guidance about refreshing this too.

Reviewer: Whilst the default for refreshing this may be as it approaches expiry, I think we also need a section regarding revocation. If the EST Client is also an NMOS Client it may identify that the CA cert has been revoked at some point, which should be an indication it needs to go through initial enrolment again presumably.

Similarly, if the server cert is revoked, the EST Client won't necessarily be notified that this has happened. We may need to mandate some mechanism to force the certificate renewal in this situation.

Author: Added a section certificate revocation

The EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client SHOULD explicitly trust the EST Server manually configured or discovered using Unicast DNS and not perform authentication of the EST Servers TLS Certificate during the initial request to EST Server. If EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client should use the returned Root CA to authenticate all further communication with the EST Server and NMOS APIs.

**Generate Certificate Signing(CSR) Request**

> The EST Client SHOULD create a CSR for each Cipher Suite it supports with an appropriate Key Length. The CSR MUST contain a Common Name that is resolvable via DNS on the current domain and appropriate values for the other CSR fields. The manufacturer MAY allow the optional CSR fields to be configured by the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST Client SHOULD create a CSR for each digital signature algorithm it supports with an appropriate Key Length. The CSR MUST contain a Common Name that is resolvable via DNS on the current domain and appropriate values for the other CSR fields. The manufacturer MAY allow the optional CSR fields to be configured by the operator.
```

**Certificate Request**

For each generated CSR the EST CLient SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simpleenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client SHOULD include the manufacturer installed TLS Client Certificate if present and valid during the TLS handshake with the EST Server. If the TLS certificate is no longer valid, the [Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate](#Expired-Manufacturer-Issued-TLS-Client-Certificate) workflow should be followed.

If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to its NMOS APIs.

> If the EST Server returns a HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 response, the request was successful, but the certificate has not been processed yet. The response SHOULD include a `Retry-After` header and the EST Client MUST not attempt re-sending the request before the defined time has expired. The EST Client SHOULD attempt resending the request 5 times before aborting the certificate request and attempting with an a alternative EST Server.

Reviewer: 5 times with backoff? If so any suggestions on a time period?

Author: Just defining some point when the EST client should stop retrying. 
This needs to be long enough for  a user to manually authorise the request

If the EST Server returns any other HTTP response, the request has been unsuccessful, this could be caused by a malformed request, server side error or the EST Client not being authorised. The EST Client SHOULD restart the EST workflow with an alternative EST Server if present, else the EST Client SHOULD wait an appropriate exponential backoff period before retrying.

### Certificate Renewal

> At an appropriate point before the EST Clients TLS Certificate expires the EST Client SHOULD renew the TLS Certificate. If the EST Clients TLS Certificate is no longer valid then [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow should be followed.

Reviewer: We should probably provide guidance here, with perhaps no sooner than 50% of expiry time, with a suggestion of 80%? There may be a good reference for this looking at suggestions from LetsEncrypt etc.

Author: Added a suggested renew window

### Connection to new network

It MAY be desirable that when a EST Client is connected to a different network that it automatically requests a TLS Certificate for the new network. It MUST be possible to disable this functionality on the EST Client and provide a manual method for an authorised operator to initiate the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement). The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client should compare the returned Certificate to the currently install Root CA, if the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

## TODO:
* Specification of returned TLS certificate format (eg, .p7, .pem)?
* Specification of supported Cipher Suites and minimum key lengths?
* Generate a new Key Pair for each TLS Certificate renewal?
* Specification of Root CA rollover period and procedure?
* Support for server side generation of keys?

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest a TODO to think through whether we can allow use of the client certs in some comms with NMOS APIs as well as EST Servers. It'd be worth thinking this through fully in the context of BCP-003-02 now to avoid issues later.

### EST Client

The entity that is using the EST API, for example:

- a Node requesting a TLS Server Certificate
- a Node requesting the latest Root CA of the domain

### NMOS Server

The entity that is providing an NMOS API, for example:

- a registry implementing IS-04 Registration and Query APIs
- a Node implementing IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API

### NMOS Client

The entity that is using the NMOS API, for example:

- a Node using the IS-04 Registration API
- a monitoring application using the IS-04 Query API
- a connection control application using the IS-05 Connection API

## Introduction (informative)

This document covers the automated provisioning of TLS Certificates to NMOS Servers, which are then used to secure communications between NMOS Servers and NMOS Clients.

This document is not concerned with the security of the connection used to carry out provisioning of the TLS Certificate, but for the mechanism described in this document to be effective the connection must be secured, ideally using the recommendation covered in [BCP-003-01](best-practice-secure-comms.md).

## Automated Certificate Provisioning Flow (informative)

> To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, manufacturers must include a unique TLS Client Certificate on all their devices and provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, manufacturers must include a unique TLS Client Certificate on all their devices and provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority public key to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.
```

> 1. Before the NMOS Node(EST Client) is shipped from the factory it must be provisioned with a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the Manufacturers Certificate Authority

Reviewer: Perhaps the language could be modified slightly to account for pure software implementations?

Author: Slightly re-worded, but kept the word `manufacturer` as couldn't think of a better word that would cover both, software and hardware.

Multiple DNS-SD advertisements for the same API are permitted where the API is exposed via multiple ports and/or protocols.

EST Clients MUST support discovering the EST Server through use of unicast DNS-SD service discovery, as described in [RFC 6763][RFC-6763].

### DNS-SD TXT Records

#### pri

The DNS-SD advertisement MUST include a TXT record with key 'pri' and an integer value. Servers MAY additionally present a matching priority via the DNS-SD SRV record 'priority' and 'weight' as defined in [RFC 2782][RFC-2782]. The TXT record should be used in favour of the SRV priority and weight where these values differ, in order to overcome issues in the Bonjour and Avahi implementations. Values 0 to 99 correspond to an active EST Server API (zero being the highest priority). Values 100+ are reserved for development work to avoid colliding with a live system.

#### api_label

> The DNS-SD advertisement MAY include a TXT record with key 'api_label' and a string. The 'api_label' key defines an arbitrary label that if present MUST be appended to the well-know EST path, for example `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/<arbitrary label>/`. The arbitrary label is specified in the EST [RFC 7030][RFC-7030] and allows multiple EST Server instance on a single host to be used.

Reviewer: Agreed. I was also just wondering whether we should use `api_selector` as the name (based upon something from IS-08). 'label' may well be confused with other things despite the use of 'arbitrary label' in the RFC. I think we should ask for opinions on this on the next call.

> The DNS-SD advertisement MAY include a TXT record with key 'api_label' and a string. The 'api_label' key defines an arbitrary label that if present MUST be appended to the well-know EST path, for example `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/<arbitrary label>/`. The arbitrary label is specified in the EST [RFC 7030][RFC-7030] and allows multiple EST Server instance on a single host to be used.

Author: Changed to `api_selector` and clarified what todo if not present

## EST Server Behaviour

The EST server must be implemented in accordance with [RFC 7030][RFC-7030].

### EST Server API

The EST Server SHALL present an instance of the EST API as defined in [RFC 7030][RFC-7030].

This MUST include the following API endpoints:

| Operation                       | Operation path  |
| ------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Distribution of CA Certificates | /cacerts        |
| Enrollment of Clients           | /simpleenroll   |
| Re-enrollment of Clients        | /simplereenroll |

### EST Server Authentication

The EST Server MUST present a valid TLS Server Certificate signed by the CA for realm from which it is issuing certificates.

### EST Server - Client Authentication

The EST Server MUST authenticate the EST Client that is requesting a TLS Certificate manually or automatically using a TLS Client Certificate.

> The EST Server MUST support using a TLS Client Certificate, presented during the TLS handshake by the EST Client to authenticate if the Client is trusted. The TLS Client Certificate can either be signed by the current CA or an externally trusted Root CA. The EST Server MUST check the validity of the EST CLients TLS Certificate before responding to its request. The EST Server MUST provide a method to load multiple trusted Root CA's, that are used to verify TLS Client Certificate.

Author: No I think they both have equal precedence, you may even chose not to trust any External CAs if your security policy requires its and fall back to manual authentication.

> The EST Server MAY also support manually authentication of the EST Client if; no TLS Client Certificate is presented during the TLS handshake, the TLS Client Certificate is not trusted or as an extra authentication step. The exact process for manual authentication will be implementation specific, but the EST Server MUST provide enough information to the operator so they can authenticate the EST Client. During the manual authentication the EST Server MUST respond with either HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 and the response must include a `Retry-After` header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The EST Server MAY also support manual authentication of the EST Client if:
- No TLS Client Certificate is presented during the TLS handshake
- The TLS Client Certificate is not trusted
- As an extra authentication step.
The exact process for manual authentication will be implementation specific, but the EST Server MUST provide enough information to the operator so they can authenticate the EST Client. During the manual authentication the EST Server MUST respond with either HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 and the response must include a `Retry-After` header.
```

The EST Server MUST be capable of issuing TLS Certificates signed with both RSA and ECDSA keys.

The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client AUthentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used both as a server certificate to authenticate NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client to the EST Server during certificate renewal.

## EST Client

> The EST Client manufacturer SHOULD issue a unique TLS Client Certificate for every device, this certificate should be valid for a maximum of 10 year and the Root CA used to sign it be valid for a maximum of 20 years.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The EST Client manufacturer SHOULD issue a unique TLS Client Certificate for every device. It is RECOMMENDED that this certificate be valid for a maximum of 10 years. The Root CA used to sign it is RECOMMENDED to be valid for a maximum of 20 years.
```

#### Generate Certificate Signing(CSR) Request

The EST Client SHOULD create a CSR for each digital signature algorithm it supports with an appropriate Key Length. The CSR MUST contain a Common Name that is resolvable via DNS on the current domain and appropriate values for the other CSR fields. The manufacturer MAY allow the optional CSR fields to be configured by the operator.

#### Certificate Request

For each generated CSR the EST CLient SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simpleenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client SHOULD include the manufacturer installed TLS Client Certificate if present and valid during the TLS handshake with the EST Server. If the TLS certificate is no longer valid, the [Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate](#Expired-Manufacturer-Issued-TLS-Client-Certificate) workflow should be followed.

> If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to its NMOS APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to NMOS APIs.
```

If the EST Server returns a HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 response, the request was successful, but the certificate has not been processed yet. The response SHOULD include a `Retry-After` header and the EST Client MUST not attempt re-sending the request before the defined time has expired. The EST Client SHOULD attempt resending the request 5 times before aborting the certificate request and attempting with an a alternative EST Server. [RFC 7030 Section 4.2.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-4.2.3)

> If the EST Server returns any other HTTP response, the request has been unsuccessful, this could be caused by a malformed request, server side error or the EST Client not being authorised. The EST Client SHOULD restart the EST workflow with an alternative EST Server if present, else the EST Client SHOULD wait a backoff period 2 seconds plus jitter before retrying.

Reviewer: Should the 2 seconds increase exponentially? Is this defined in an RFC we could reference instead?

Author: Not defined anywhere, thought 2 seconds was a sensible back off period, allowing the EST server to not be overloaded.

Author: Not seen an RFC that could be referenced.
Happy to say exponential backoff should be implemented instead, as is stated in IS-04, with not times specified.

Reviewer: I'd suggest stating exponential backoff with a minimum starting period of 1 or 2 seconds. Given this is unlikely to be particularly time critical we could probably safely say higher if necessary.

Author: Added

The EST Client SHOULD generate a new CSR matching the TLS certificate it is being used to replace. The EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simplereenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client MUST include the TLS Certificate being renewed during the TLS handshake with the EST Server.

If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to its NMOS APIs. The EST Client MUST remove any previously issued TLS Certificates and key pairs.

If the EST Server returns any other HTTP response, the request has been unsuccessful. The EST Client SHOULD re-submit the request to an alternative EST Server if present. Otherwise the EST Client SHOULD carry on using the existing TLS Certificate if still valid and re-attempt renewal at an appropriate point.

### Root CA Renewal

> Renewal of the Root CA SHOULD be attempted no sooner than 50% of the certificates expiry time or before the 'Not Before' date on the certificate. It is RECOMMENDED that certificate renewal is performed after 80% of the expiry time. To renew the Root CA and the EST Clients TLS Certificate follow the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow, using the existing TLS Certificate for authentication if still valid.

Reviewer: Should we indicate that if no new CA cert is available at 80% time then a retry procedure should be followed? Obviously this need not be particularly frequent.

Author: Yeah after the remaining period of validities half-life

### Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate

If the Manufacturer issued TLS Client Certificate has expired or has been revoked, it MUST NOT be used by the EST Client for authentication. An EST Client MAY attempt to request a TLS Certificate following [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning), without providing a TLS Client Certificate during the TLS handshake. If the EST Server supports manual authentication the request will be processed.

If the EST Server fails to process the request the following actions MAY be taken:

> 1. The EST Client MAY have a TLS Certificate for the target network manually installed on the device. This certificate MUST then be used for future [Certificate Renewals](#certificate-renewal)

Reviewer 2: "The EST Client MUST remove any previously issued TLS Certificates and key pairs" but a manually installed cert "MUST then be used for future renewals" ... can this be clarified? Does the manually installed one take precedence for all future renewals (and so shouldn't be removed), or should it just be used for the next renewal?

Author: Added clarification

2. The Manufacturer issued TLS Client Certificate MAY be renewed by a software/firmware update, this update MUST contain a unique TLS certificate per device. The valid TLS Client Certificate MAY then be used during [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning)

### Connection to new network

> It MAY be desirable that when a EST Client is connected to a different network that it automatically requests a TLS Certificate for the new network. It MUST be possible to disable this functionality on the EST Client and provide a manual method for an authorised operator to initiate the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

Reviewer: Do you think this should be a different enable/disable flag to the global EST enable/disable? If so, how would it work? Would it perhaps be that if a cert is already deployed to the device (and not expired?) it shouldn't request a new one even if it has moved to a new domain? We probably need a good use case to mandate this, otherwise the global EST on/off may be sufficient.

Author: Yeah thinking about this again seems like it is not required.

> On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement). The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client should compare the returned Certificate to the currently install Root CA, if the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

Reviewer: MUST unless manually configured?

### Certificate Revocation

The EST Client SHOULD periodically check the revocation status of both the Root CA and their TLS Certificates using [OCSP][RFC-6960] and [CRL][RFC-5280]. If a TLS Certificate is revoked, the EST Client MUST stop using the revoked certificate immediately and follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow to replace the certificate.

## TODO:
* Specification of returned TLS certificate format (eg, .p7, .pem)?

> * Specification of supported Cipher Suites and minimum key lengths?

Reviewer: This one sounds like a job for BCP-003-01

* Generate a new Key Pair for each TLS Certificate renewal?

> * Specification of Root CA rollover period and procedure?

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to specify the period as other best practice will cover this better. I think the procedure is sufficient.

    - [EST Client](#est-client-1)
        - [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning)
            - [EST Server Discovery](#est-server-discovery)
            - [Get Root CA](#get-root-ca)
            - [Generate Certificate Signing(CSR) Request](#generate-certificate-signingcsr-request)
            - [Certificate Request](#certificate-request)
        - [Certificate Renewal](#certificate-renewal)
        - [Root Certificate Authority Renewal](#root-certificate-authority-renewal)
        - [Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate](#expired-manufacturer-issued-tls-client-certificate)
        - [Connection to new network](#connection-to-new-network)
        - [Certificate Revocation](#certificate-revocation)
    - [TODO:](#todo)
    - [Further Reading](#further-reading)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Scope

This document specifies how to implement automated provisioning of TLS Server Certificates to NMOS APIs.

This is based on best practice used for RESTful APIs, and is intended to promote a secure approach to interoperability.

Use of insecure communication (plain HTTP etc.) is forbidden within the scope of this document.

> Implementation of [BCP-003-01](best-practice-secure-comms.md) is a recommended alongside implementing this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation of [BCP-003-01](best-practice-secure-comms.md) is recommended alongside implementing this document.
```

## Normative References

These appear at the end of the Markdown source for this document,
and are referenced as hyperlinks within the main body.

## Definitions

_See also the [NMOS Glossary](https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos/wiki/Glossary), and definitions within RFCs._

### API

An HTTP / WebSocket API as defined in an AMWA NMOS Specification (IS-04, IS-05, IS-06, etc.)

### CSR (Certificate Signing Request)

The syntax used to request a TLS Certificate from a Certificate Authority, it contains the public key and identification information required by the Certificate Authority in the PKCS Format, [RFC 2986][RFC-2986]

### EST (Enrollment over Secure Transport)

Enrollment over Secure Transport defines a profile for requesting TLS certificates over a secure transport protocol.

### EST Server

The entity that is providing the EST API in accordance with [RFC 7030][RFC-7030]

### EST Client

The entity that is using the EST API, for example:

- a Node requesting a TLS Server Certificate
- a Node requesting the latest Root CA of the domain

### NMOS Server

The entity that is providing an NMOS API, for example:

- a registry implementing IS-04 Registration and Query APIs

> - a Node implementing IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a Node implementing the IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API
```

### NMOS Client

The entity that is using the NMOS API, for example:

- a Node using the IS-04 Registration API
- a monitoring application using the IS-04 Query API
- a connection control application using the IS-05 Connection API

## Introduction (informative)

This document covers the automated provisioning of TLS Certificates to NMOS Servers, which are then used to secure communications between NMOS Servers and NMOS Clients.

This document is not concerned with the security of the connection used to carry out provisioning of the TLS Certificate, but for the mechanism described in this document to be effective the connection must be secured, ideally using the recommendation covered in [BCP-003-01](best-practice-secure-comms.md).

## Automated Certificate Provisioning Flow (informative)

> To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, NMOS implementations must include a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the manufacturers Certificate Authority. Manufacturers must provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority public key to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised, the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable zero-configuration TLS Certificate provisioning, NMOS implementations must include a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the manufacturer's Certificate Authority. Manufacturers must provide the corresponding Root Certificate Authority public key to customers. If the TLS Client Certificate or the chain of trust is compromised, the manufacturer must revoke the comprised certificates.
```

> 1. Before the NMOS Node(EST Client) is shipped from the factory it must be provisioned with a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the Manufacturers Certificate Authority

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before the NMOS Node(EST Client) is shipped from the factory it must be provisioned with a unique TLS Client Certificate, signed by the manufacturer's Certificate Authority
```

> 2. When the EST Client is connected to the target environments network, it will first discover the location of the EST Server using Unicast DNS-SD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When the EST Client is connected to the target environment's network, it will first discover the location of the EST Server using Unicast DNS-SD.
```

    * The EST Client should assume the EST server found using DNS-SD is trusted and need not perform certificate verification for this initial transaction.
3. The EST Client should then request the Root CA for the target network, from the EST Server
    * Using the Root CA returned to secure further communications with the EST Server and NMOS Servers
4. The EST Client must generate a Certificate Signing Request(CSR) for all supported digital signature algorithms with appropriate key lengths
    * Included in the CSR must be the DNS resolvable name for the current domain of the EST Client
    * Appropriate values for the remaining CSR fields should be used
5. The EST Client should send each CSR to the EST Server

>     * The EST Client must provide the Manufacturer issued certificate during the TLS handshake, if valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The EST Client must provide the manufacturer issued certificate during the TLS handshake, if valid
```

    * The EST Server will use the TLS Client Certificate to validate whether the EST Client is authorized to be issued with a TLS Server Certificate. If the EST Client is validated the EST Server will return a signed TLS Certificate

> 6. The EST Client should provide the returned TLS Certificate and the corresponding chain of trust for all future request to its NMOS APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The EST Client should provide the returned TLS Certificate and the corresponding chain of trust in all future responses returned by its NMOS APIs
```

> The workflow if no valid Manufacturer TLS Client Certificate is present or if EST Client is moved to a new network are covered in detail in the following [sections](#est-client).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow if no valid Manufacturer TLS Client Certificate is present or if EST Client is moved to a new network are covered in detail in the following [sections](#est-client).
```
```suggestion
The workflow if no valid manufacturer TLS Client Certificate is present or if EST Client is moved to a new network are covered in detail in the following [sections](#est-client).
```

![NMOS EST WorkFlow](images/nmos_est_workflow.png)

## DNS-SD Advertisement

The EST Server MUST be advertised using unicast DNS-SD as per [RFC 6763][RFC-6763].
The EST Server SHOULD NOT be advertised via mDNS-based DNS-SD.

> EST Clients MUST not trust a mDNS-based DNS-SD advertisement for the EST server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EST Clients MUST not trust a mDNS-based DNS-SD advertisement for the EST server unless explicitly configured to do so.
```

Multiple DNS-SD advertisements for the same API are permitted where the API is exposed via multiple ports and/or protocols.

EST Clients MUST support discovering the EST Server through use of unicast DNS-SD service discovery, as described in [RFC 6763][RFC-6763].

### DNS-SD TXT Records

#### pri

The DNS-SD advertisement MUST include a TXT record with key 'pri' and an integer value. Servers MAY additionally present a matching priority via the DNS-SD SRV record 'priority' and 'weight' as defined in [RFC 2782][RFC-2782]. The TXT record should be used in favour of the SRV priority and weight where these values differ, in order to overcome issues in the Bonjour and Avahi implementations. Values 0 to 99 correspond to an active EST Server API (zero being the highest priority). Values 100+ are reserved for development work to avoid colliding with a live system.

#### api_selector

> The DNS-SD advertisement MAY include a TXT record with key 'api_selector' and a string. The 'api_selector' key defines an arbitrary label that if present MUST be appended to the well-know EST path, for example `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/<arbitrary label>/`. The arbitrary label is specified in the EST [RFC 7030][RFC-7030] and allows multiple EST Server instances on a single host to be used. If the 'api_selector' key is not present in the TXT record, the EST Client must not append anything to the well-know EST path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DNS-SD advertisement MAY include a TXT record with key 'api_selector' and a string. The 'api_selector' key defines an arbitrary label that if present MUST be appended to the well-known EST path, for example `https://www.example.com/.well-known/est/<arbitrary label>/`. The arbitrary label is specified in the EST [RFC 7030][RFC-7030] and allows multiple EST Server instances on a single host to be used. If the 'api_selector' key is not present in the TXT record, the EST Client MUST NOT append anything to the well-known EST path.
```

## EST Server Behaviour

> The EST server must be implemented in accordance with [RFC 7030][RFC-7030].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST server MUST be implemented in accordance with [RFC 7030][RFC-7030].
```

### EST Server API

The EST Server SHALL present an instance of the EST API as defined in [RFC 7030][RFC-7030].

This MUST include the following API endpoints:

| Operation                       | Operation path  |
| ------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Distribution of CA Certificates | /cacerts        |
| Enrollment of Clients           | /simpleenroll   |
| Re-enrollment of Clients        | /simplereenroll |

### EST Server Authentication

The EST Server MUST present a valid TLS Server Certificate signed by the CA for the realm to which it is issuing certificates.

### EST Server - Client Authentication

The EST Server MUST authenticate the EST Client that is requesting a TLS Certificate manually or automatically using a TLS Client Certificate.

> The EST Server MUST support using a TLS Client Certificate, presented during the TLS handshake by the EST Client to authenticate if the EST Client is trusted. The TLS Client Certificate can either be signed by the current CA or an externally trusted Root CA. The EST Server MUST check the validity of the EST CLients TLS Certificate before responding to its request. The EST Server MUST provide a method to load multiple trusted Root CA's, that are used to verify TLS Client Certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST Server MUST support using a TLS Client Certificate, presented during the TLS handshake by the EST Client to authenticate if the EST Client is trusted. The TLS Client Certificate can either be signed by the current CA or an externally trusted Root CA. The EST Server MUST check the validity of the EST Client's TLS Certificate before responding to its request. The EST Server MUST provide a method to load multiple trusted Root CA's, that are used to verify the TLS Client Certificate.
```

The EST Server MAY also support manual authentication of the EST Client if:
- No TLS Client Certificate is presented during the TLS handshake
- The TLS Client Certificate is not trusted

> - As an extra authentication step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The deployment chooses to enforce an extra authentication step.
```

> The exact process for manual authentication will be implementation specific, but the EST Server MUST provide enough information to the operator so they can authenticate the EST Client. During the manual authentication the EST Server MUST respond with either HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 and the response must include a `Retry-After` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact process for manual authentication will be implementation specific, but the EST Server MUST provide enough information to the operator so they can authenticate the EST Client. During the manual authentication the EST Server MUST respond with either HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 and the response MUST include a `Retry-After` header.
```

The EST Server MUST be capable of issuing TLS Certificates signed with both RSA and ECDSA keys.

> The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client AUthentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used both as a server certificate to authenticate NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client to the EST Server during certificate renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client Authentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used both as a server certificate to authenticate NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client to the EST Server during certificate renewal.
```

> ## EST Client

Reviewer: Do we need to say that the EST Client MUST support handling of the Retry-After procedure in case this is being used?

Author: Added description of handling HTTP 202 response, but not 503

The EST Client manufacturer SHOULD issue a unique TLS Client Certificate for every device. It is RECOMMENDED that this certificate be valid for a maximum of 10 years. The Root CA used to sign it is RECOMMENDED to be valid for a maximum of 20 years.

> An EST Client SHOULD allow EST to be disabled, preventing the EST Client from being automatically provisioned with a TLS Certificate if required by the networks security policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client SHOULD allow EST to be disabled, preventing the EST Client from being automatically provisioned with a TLS Certificate if required by the network's security policy.
```

> An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Servers Hostname and Port, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Server's Hostname, Port and Arbitrary Label, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server.
```

An EST Client MUST provide a method to manually install both the Root CA and TLS Server certificate for the target environment, for the case when an EST Server is not present or the TLS Client Certificate is no longer valid.

> An EST Client MUST provide a method to replace the Manufacturer Issued TLS Certificate, for the case when the TLS Certificate has been revoked or expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client MUST provide a method to replace the manufacturer-issued TLS Client Certificate, for the case when the TLS Certificate has been revoked or expired.
```

If the EST Server returns a HTTP re-direct, the the EST Client SHOULD follow the re-direct URL.

> If the EST Server returns an HTTP 4xx, HTTP 5xx or Connection Timeout, the EST Client SHOULD attempt the request again using an alternative EST Server if present, else the EST Client SHOULD wait an appropriate exponential backoff period before retrying.

Reviewer: Unless this is a 503 with a Retry-After header?

Author: Add description of behaviour when HTTP 202 received, removed 503 as not specified in EST RFC

### Initial Certificate Provisioning

#### EST Server Discovery

> On connection to the target environments network the EST Client SHOULD attempt to discover the location of the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), if EST has not been disabled or the location of the EST configured manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On connection to the target environment's network the EST Client SHOULD attempt to discover the location of the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), if EST has not been disabled or the location of the EST configured manually.
```

#### Get Root CA

> The EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client SHOULD explicitly trust the EST Server manually configured or discovered using Unicast DNS and not perform authentication of the EST Servers TLS Certificate during the initial request to EST Server. If EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client should use the returned Root CA to authenticate all further communication with the EST Server and NMOS APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client SHOULD explicitly trust the EST Server manually configured or discovered using Unicast DNS and not perform authentication of the EST Server's TLS Certificate during the initial request to the EST Server. If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client SHOULD use the returned Root CA to authenticate all further communication with the EST Server and NMOS APIs.
```

#### Generate Certificate Signing(CSR) Request

The EST Client SHOULD create a CSR for each digital signature algorithm it supports with an appropriate Key Length. The CSR MUST contain a Common Name that is resolvable via DNS on the current domain and appropriate values for the other CSR fields. The manufacturer MAY allow the optional CSR fields to be configured by the operator.

#### Certificate Request

> For each generated CSR the EST CLient SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simpleenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client SHOULD include the manufacturer installed TLS Client Certificate if present and valid during the TLS handshake with the EST Server. If the TLS certificate is no longer valid, the [Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate](#Expired-Manufacturer-Issued-TLS-Client-Certificate) workflow should be followed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each generated CSR the EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simpleenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client SHOULD include the manufacturer installed TLS Client Certificate if present and valid during the TLS handshake with the EST Server. If the TLS certificate is no longer valid, the [Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate](#Expired-Manufacturer-Issued-TLS-Client-Certificate) workflow should be followed.
```

If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to NMOS APIs.

> If the EST Server returns a HTTP 202 or HTTP 503 response, the request was successful, but the certificate has not been processed yet. The response SHOULD include a `Retry-After` header and the EST Client MUST not attempt re-sending the request before the defined time has expired. The EST Client SHOULD attempt resending the request 5 times before aborting the certificate request and attempting with an a alternative EST Server. [RFC 7030 Section 4.2.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-4.2.3)

Reviewer: It seems quite possible/likely that a 503 may not indicate a success, but a temporary problem. Should we call out the potential difference here?

Author: Removed HTTP 503 as not in EST RFC

If the EST Server returns any other HTTP response, the request has been unsuccessful, this could be caused by a malformed request, server side error or the EST Client not being authorised. The EST Client SHOULD restart the EST workflow with an alternative EST Server if present, else the EST Client SHOULD wait a backoff period 2 seconds plus jitter before retrying.

### Certificate Renewal

> Renewal of the TLS Certificate SHOULD be attempted no sooner than 50% of the certificates expiry time or before the 'Not Before' date on the certificate. It is RECOMMENDED that certificate renewal is performed after 80% of the expiry time. If the EST Clients TLS Certificate is no longer valid then [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow should be followed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renewal of the TLS Certificate SHOULD be attempted no sooner than 50% of the certificate's expiry time or before the 'Not Before' date on the certificate. It is RECOMMENDED that certificate renewal is performed after 80% of the expiry time. If the EST Client's TLS Certificate is no longer valid then the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow should be followed.
```

The EST Client SHOULD generate a new CSR matching the TLS certificate it is being used to replace. The EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request containing the CSR to the `/simplereenroll` endpoint of the EST Server. The EST Client MUST include the TLS Certificate being renewed during the TLS handshake with the EST Server.

> If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client should use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to its NMOS APIs. The EST Client MUST remove any previously issued TLS Certificates and key pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response the certificate request was successful and the EST Client SHOULD use the returned TLS Certificate and its chain of trust for all further requests to its NMOS APIs. The EST Client MUST remove any previously issued TLS Certificates and key pairs.
```

> If the EST Server returns any other HTTP response, the request has been unsuccessful. The EST Client SHOULD re-submit the request to an alternative EST Server if present. Otherwise the EST Client SHOULD carry on using the existing TLS Certificate if still valid and re-attempt renewal after half of the remaining period of validity has elapsed.

Reviewer: Caveat of the retry procedure?

Author: Duplicated procedure for initial certificate request response to HTTP 202

### Root Certificate Authority Renewal

> Renewal of the Root CA SHOULD be attempted no sooner than 50% of the certificates expiry time or before the 'Not Before' date on the certificate. It is RECOMMENDED that certificate renewal is performed after 80% of the expiry time. To renew the Root CA and the EST Clients TLS Certificate follow the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow, using the existing TLS Certificate for authentication if still valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renewal of the Root CA SHOULD be attempted no sooner than 50% of the certificate's expiry time or before the 'Not Before' date on the certificate. It is RECOMMENDED that certificate renewal is performed after 80% of the expiry time. To renew the Root CA and the EST Client's TLS Certificate follow the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow, using the existing TLS Certificate for authentication if still valid.
```

> If the returned Root Certificate Authority by the EST Server is the same as the existing Root Certificate Authority, the EST Client should attempt renewal of the Root Certificate Authority after half of the remaining period of validity has elapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the returned Root Certificate Authority by the EST Server is the same as the existing Root Certificate Authority, the EST Client SHOULD re-attempt renewal of the Root Certificate Authority after half of the remaining period of validity has elapsed.
```

### Expired Manufacturer Issued TLS Client Certificate

> If the Manufacturer issued TLS Client Certificate has expired or has been revoked, it MUST NOT be used by the EST Client for authentication. An EST Client MAY attempt to request a TLS Certificate following [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning), without providing a TLS Client Certificate during the TLS handshake. If the EST Server supports manual authentication the request will be processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the manufacturer issued TLS Client Certificate has expired or has been revoked, it MUST NOT be used by the EST Client for authentication. An EST Client MAY attempt to request a TLS Certificate following [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning), without providing a TLS Client Certificate during the TLS handshake. If the EST Server supports manual authentication the request will be processed.
```

If the EST Server fails to process the request the following actions MAY be taken:

> 1. The EST Client MAY have a TLS Certificate for the target network manually installed on the device. The manually installed TLS certificate MUST then be used to secure its NMOS APIs until the TLS Certificate is due for renewal. The manually installed TLS Certificate MUST be presented used during the TLS Handshake for [Certificate Renewals](#certificate-renewal). If the certificate renewal is successful, the manually installed TLS Certificate and private key MUST be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The EST Client MAY have a TLS Certificate for the target network manually installed on the device. The manually installed TLS certificate MUST then be used to secure its NMOS APIs until the TLS Certificate is due for renewal. The manually installed TLS Certificate MUST be presented during the TLS Handshake for [Certificate Renewals](#certificate-renewal). If the certificate renewal is successful, the manually installed TLS Certificate and private key MUST be removed.
```

2. The Manufacturer issued TLS Client Certificate MAY be renewed by a software/firmware update, this update MUST contain a unique TLS certificate per device. The valid TLS Client Certificate MAY then be used during [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning)

### Connection to new network

It MAY be desirable that when a EST Client is connected to a different network that it automatically requests a TLS Certificate for the new network.

> On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), unless manually configured. The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client should compare the returned Certificate to the currently install Root CA, if the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), unless manually configured. The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client SHOULD compare the returned Certificate to the currently installed Root CA. If the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.
```

Reviewer: Should we add that devices SHOULD be configurable to disable this domain-changing behaviour?

Author: Possibly, but would mean that you might get into a situation where some devices switch when plugged into a new OB truck for example and some don't. 
The risk if domain-swtiching is enabled that you lose control of the device if a rouge EST Server is discovered by the device on the network and control of it is lost

### Certificate Revocation

The EST Client SHOULD periodically check the revocation status of both the Root CA and their TLS Certificates using [OCSP][RFC-6960] and [CRL][RFC-5280]. If a TLS Certificate is revoked, the EST Client MUST stop using the revoked certificate immediately and follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow to replace the certificate.

## TODO:
* Consider alternative authentication methods of trusted EST Clients
* Specification of returned TLS certificate format (eg, .p7, .pem)?
* Generate a new Key Pair for each TLS Certificate renewal?
* Support for server side generation of keys?

> * Consider using using TLS Client Certificates when using NMOS API, for use with BCP-003-02 OAuth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Consider whether the TLS Client Certificates issued by EST could be of use alongside BCP-003-02 OAuth in order to obtain tokens. Are there additional risks here?
```

The EST Server MUST be capable of issuing TLS Certificates signed with both RSA and ECDSA keys.

The EST Server MUST return a TLS Certificate with the Extended Key Usage set for both TLS Server Authentication and TLS Client AUthentication as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280]. This is to allow the TLS Certificate to be used both as a server certificate to authenticate NMOS APIs to NMOS Clients and for authentication of the EST Client to the EST Server during certificate renewal.

## EST Client

The EST Client manufacturer SHOULD issue a unique TLS Client Certificate for every device. It is RECOMMENDED that this certificate be valid for a maximum of 10 years. The Root CA used to sign it is RECOMMENDED to be valid for a maximum of 20 years.

An EST Client SHOULD allow EST to be disabled, preventing the EST Client from being automatically provisioned with a TLS Certificate if required by the networks security policy. The default value SHOULD be EST **Enabled**.

> An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Servers Hostname and Port, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be **Not Set**, enabling DNS-SD discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Server's Hostname and Port, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be **Not Set**, enabling DNS-SD discovery.
```

> An EST Client SHOULD allow explicit trust of EST server to be disable, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be explicit trust of EST Server **Enabled**.

Reviewer: Probably worth us discussing this default on a call

The EST Client manufacturer SHOULD issue a unique TLS Client Certificate for every device. It is RECOMMENDED that this certificate be valid for a maximum of 10 years. The Root CA used to sign it is RECOMMENDED to be valid for a maximum of 20 years.

An EST Client SHOULD allow EST to be disabled, preventing the EST Client from being automatically provisioned with a TLS Certificate if required by the networks security policy. The default value SHOULD be EST **Enabled**.

An EST Client SHOULD allow manual configuration of the EST Servers Hostname and Port, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be **Not Set**, enabling DNS-SD discovery.

> An EST Client SHOULD allow explicit trust of EST server to be disable, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be explicit trust of EST Server **Enabled**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client SHOULD allow explicit trust of EST server to be disabled, to prevent the EST Client from requesting a TLS Certificate from a rogue server. The default value SHOULD be explicit trust of EST Server **Enabled**.
```

Reviewer: I think 'explicit trust' needs defining better here. Do you mean trust of the certificate even if it doesn't match a CA public key which the client holds, or does this mean using a 'whitelist' or similar within the client?

Reviewer: I see this is actually defined well later on. Perhaps a forward reference is required?

> An EST Client MUST maintain a list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities, used to verity identity of the EST Server. It MUST be possible to update this list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EST Client MUST maintain a list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities, used to verify the identity of the EST Server. It MUST be possible to update this list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities.
```

#### Get Root CA

There are two possible workflows to getting the Root CA depending on if explicit trust of EST server is enabled or disabled.

> If explicit trust of the EST Server is **Enabled**, the EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client SHOULD explicitly trust the EST Server manually configured or discovered using Unicast DNS and not perform authentication of the EST Servers TLS Certificate during the initial request to EST Server. If EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client SHOULD add the returned Root CA to the list of trusted Certificate authorities, replacing any previous installed Root CAs using EST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If explicit trust of the EST Server is **Enabled**, the EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client SHOULD explicitly trust the EST Server manually configured or discovered using Unicast DNS and not perform authentication of the EST Server's TLS Certificate during the initial request to the EST Server. If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client SHOULD add the returned Root CA to the list of trusted Certificate authorities, replacing any previously installed Root CAs which were obtained via EST.
```

> If explicit trust of the EST Server is **Disbaled**, the EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client MUST perform authentication of the EST Servers TLS Certificate, using the list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities. If EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client SHOULD add the returned Root CA to the list of trusted Certificate authorities, replacing any previous installed Root CAs using EST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If explicit trust of the EST Server is **Disbaled**, the EST Client SHOULD make a HTTPS request to the `/cacerts` endpoint of the EST Server for the latest Root CA of the current network. The EST Client MUST perform authentication of the EST Server's TLS Certificate, using the list of publicly trusted Certificate Authorities. If the EST Server returns a HTTP 200 response, the EST Client SHOULD add the returned Root CA to the list of trusted Certificate authorities, replacing any previously installed Root CAs which were obtained via EST.
```

It MAY be desirable that when a EST Client is connected to a different network that it automatically requests a TLS Certificate for the new network.

> On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), unless the location fo the EST Server is manually configured. The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client SHOULD compare the returned Certificate to the currently install Root CA, if the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On start up or on change of network state the EST Client MUST attempt to discover the EST Server using [DNS-SD](#dns-sd-advertisement), unless the location of the EST Server is manually configured. The EST Client SHOULD make a request to the `/cacerts` endpoint, if the request is successful the EST Client SHOULD compare the returned Certificate to the currently install Root CA. If the Certificate is for a different Domain the EST Client MUST follow the [Initial Certificate Provisioning](#initial-certificate-provisioning) workflow.
```
